---
layout:     post
title:      Adipogenesis 
subtitle:   note#1_for_thesis
date:       2020-03-27
author:     Yuxi
header-img: img/adipocyte.jpg
catalog: true
tags:
    - Academic note
    - Adipogenesis
    - Undergraduate thesis
---

> This is the studying note for my thesis.


> ## Introduction

> Modern people always thinking about how to loose weight. In my [undergraduate thesis](https://doi.org/10.1172/jci.insight.128405.), we have found that deletion *kindlin-2* would cause a dratical lipoathrophy. To accomplish my thesis writing, it is necessary to have a relatively deep understanding of adipogenesis, which means how adipose tissue, or the fat tissue, grow.
 

## Adipocyte and Adipose tissue

### Adipocyte
Adipocyte is characterized by a large internal fat droplet. And its cytoplasma is compacted to a thin layer with nucleus locating outer edge of the cell. Adipocyte have such following functions:

1. Adipocytes can balance energy by storing triacyglycerol in energy excess time and mabolizing triacylglycerol in energy deprivation period.

2. Adipocyte can also be considered as such kind of cells in endocrine organ. It has a porfound impact on the regulation of metabolism process in other tissue such as appetite, insulin sensitivity, immunological response, and vascular disease. 

### Adipose tissue
When adipocytes accumulate in large numbers, they would form adipose tissue, which has areolar connective structure. Adipose tissue would form an insulating layer under the skin. The amount of adipose tissue depends on **adipocyte size and adipocyte number**, which is regulated by leptin produced by adipocytes themselves. Adipose tissue would show several functions:

1. Give assistance to regulate body temperature.

2. Attach skin to the underlying tissue.

3. Act as a cushion to protect internal body parts.

As a matter of fact, adipose tissue can increase in size in one of two main ways: hypertrophy *increase in size of existing adipocytes* or hyperplasia *formation of new adipocytes through differentiation of resident precursors known as preadipocytes*
## Adipogenesis
> The process of Adipocytes reaching maturity and becoming functional.

As a whole, adipogenesis involves roughly six steps: ① mesenchymal precursors; ② committed preadipocytes; ③ growth-arrested preadipocytes; ④ mitotic clinal expansion; ⑤ terminal differentiation; ⑥ mature adipocytes. ([Lefterova and Lazar, 2009](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.tem.2008.11.005)). These six steps can be roughly divided into two process: **undifferentiated fibroblast-like cells** (*characterized by the expression of platelet-derived growth factor receptor-α (PDGFRα) and/or PDGFRβ, such as mesenchymal precursor*) **differentiates into preadipocytes without mophological changes**; and **sencondarily differentiate to become lipid-filled, functional, and insulin-responsive mature adipocyes**.

### Adipocyte Determination
There are two kinds of determination. One is called **automomous determination**, which means that the cell holds all the information they need. The other kind of determination which depending on instruction from other cells (usually neighbouring) to direct its deiiferentiation is called **interactice determination**. Both two kinds of determination has been involved in the adipocyte developmental process.

### Adipocyte Differentiation
> Actually, I am always thinking that differentiation is a complex but ordered acitivation of gene expression process. The phrase *well-orchestrated multistep process* can describe the process very well. 

Since the late 1980s, CCAAT/Enhancer-Binding Protein α, **C/EBPα**, has been indicated as a key metabolic regulator of energy metabolism. Lots of following study confirmed the role of C/EBPα and other C/EBP family members in energy balance and transcription factors in adipocyte differentiation. And in 1994 another important modulator, Peroxisome Proliferator Acitvated Receptor γ, **PPARγ** has been identified. In addition to such two factors, there are many other factors contributing to the adipogenesis. Below, the main molecular players involved in adipogenesis are elucidated.


#### Early adipocyte commitment factors
*Adipogenic commitment* is the process whereby a multipotent precursor becomes restricted to the adipocyte lineage.

Bone morphogenetic protein 2 **(BMP2)** and BMP4 were identified to be able to drive adipocyte commitment in cultured fibroblasts and be required for in vitro adipogenic differentiation. Separately, Zinc-Finger protein 423 **(ZFP423)** was revealed as preferentially enriched in adipogenic fibroblasts, where it acts to sensitize fibroblasts to pro-adipogentic BMP signalling. *Although ZFP423 is required for fetal development of subcutaneous adipose tissue, there are also researches showing that it is unnecessary for visceral adipogensis during high-fat diet feeding.* After BMPs binding and triggering the signal through BMP receptors to activate the SMAD1, SMAD5, SMAD8 which can help activate transcription factor by SMAD4. And SMAD4 is bale to promote terminal differentiation by stimulating transcription of PPARγ.

At the same time, there are other functional factor regulating the adipogenesis. AFP467 can suppresses osteogenesis and promotes adipogenesis by enhancing the expression of C/EBPα. KLF5 could act as a co-activator of C/EBPα, which then enhance expression of PPARγ and C/EBPα. On the contrary, GATA2 and GATA3 can prevent PPARγ transcription. And for EGR1 and EGR2, they can inhibit and promote adipogenesis respectively by regulating cAMP response element-binding protein **CREB**, which can further regulate C/EBPβ.

#### Adipocyte Differentiation
As mentioned before, the most two important factor in the process of adipogenesis is PPARγ and C/EBPα. PPARγ is a kind of nuclear hormone receptor, which means it can binds with DNA and endocrine hormons to regulate gene expression. PPARγ was identified as atranscription factor regulating the expression of the adipose-specific gene *AP2*. And it is subsequently characterized as a indispensible master regulator of adipofenesis.  

C/EBPα is the most downstream effects of PPARγ. And they could funtionally synergize. More than 90% of PPARγ DNA-binding sites also bind C/EBPα, and C/EBPα can also help PPARγ work in full function. Although C/EBPβ can share some functional redundancy with C/EBPα in the process of embryo development, C/EBPα is necessary for all forms adult adipogenesis.

#### Adipocyte de-differentiation
Adipogenesis has been considered as a unidirectional process for a long time, however, there is new data to quistion about whether adipocytes are truely terminally terminated. In other words, the data showed that adipocyte has potential to de-differentiation, which means mature adipocytes are able to go back to fibroblast-like precursor cells state, and these de-differentiated cells can also reforming adipocytes. 


### Signalling modulators of adipogenesis

#### Insulin signalling
Insulin is an anabolic pancreatic peptide hormone in response ti increased blood glucose to promote plasma glucose uptake into peripheral tissues, such as skeletal muscle and adipocyte, for utilization or storage. Insulin signals are triggered through high affinity binding to the insulin receptor to specific tissues or low affinity binding to insulin-like growth factor 1 **(IGF1)**. After that, intracellularly, PI3K-AKT pathway would be activated. And this activation could also lead to the activation of CREB, mTOR and the family of forkhead proteins **(FOXOs)**.

Insulin is necessary for adipogenesis. If insulin signalling pathway including insulin receptor, IRS family, PI3K, AKT, mTOR and FOXO family is disruped, adipogenesis would not happen. Considering the physiological role of insulin in energy metabolism, an interesting implication is that insulin serves as a permissive differentiation signal to preadipocyte. Actually, insulin would elevate during overnutrition condition. And in the presense of insulin, adipogenesis would be trigger. These process could be consider together as a overnutrition response. Under overnutrition condition, relatively high level of insulin to increase the adipocyte number to create additional safe storage sites for macronutrients.
    
#### Glucocorticoid signalling
Glucocorticoids are steroid hormones to supress inflammation and promote mobilization of nutrients from metabolic tissues. In healthy individuals, blood glucocorticoid level peaks shortly after waking up and fall throughout the rest of the day, whereas in obesity individuals, glucocorticoid level would elevate persistly. For invitro adipocyte differentiation, glucocorticoid is one of the critical components in the differentiation medium, and thus considered crucial pro-adipogenesis signals. 

In preadipocytes, glucocorticoid promote cell growth and up-regulate several transcription factor including C/EBPs. Moreover, glucocorticoid signalling can also sensitize preadipocytes to insulin signalling by enhancing the adipogenic action of the insulin pathway.

#### BMP signalling
Bone Morphogeneic Proteins, or **BMPs** mentioned before, are a class of conserved signalling molecules in the Transformation Growth Factor-β, **(TGFβ)**, family of proteins, which are originally indentified for inducing bone and cartilage formation, and now known as body growth factors. 

As mentioned before, activation of BMP receptors could result in intracellular phosphorylation and activation of SMAD protein which can lead to the activation of SMAD4 and PPARγ finally. In addition, different members of BMP family have been shown to selectively promote brown or white adipocyte differemtiation. 

#### Wnt signalling
WNTs are hoghtly conserved family of autocrine and paracrine ligands known for embryonic development and carinogenesis. However, in adipogenesis, cacnonical Wnt/β-Catenin would inhibit the differentiation process of preadipocytes.

### In vitro model
- 3T3-L1 preadipocyte
- 3T3-F442A

These two cell lines are murine preadipocyte cell lines that ere originally generated in the laboratory of Dr. Howard Green at Harvard University (Green and Kehinde, [1975](https://linkinghub.elsevier.com/retrieve/pii/0092-8674(75)90087-2), [1976](https://linkinghub.elsevier.com/retrieve/pii/0092-8674(76)90260-9))



## My Opinion
In my opinon, the most obvious difference between adipocyte and other kinds of cells is the large internal lipid droplet.  

Obesity is becoming more and more serious problem in modern society. For myslef, I am also fight with overweight and over standard body fat rate. Therefore, it is a very interesting for me to delve into the detail of adipogenesis. For my thesis, it is a typical lipoatrophy phenotype. We have a hypothesis of the distrub in adipogenesis. However, there is also data showing that lipoatrophy relating to adipocye apoptosis. Figuring out the specific reason attracts my a lot.

And some researches indicated that overexpressed PPARγ can rescue differentiation in C/EBPα deficient cells, whereas with overexpressed C/EBPα could not master regulator and C/EBPα as a regulator in the adipogenesis process. Interestingly, PPARγ is not such important in adipocyte maintaince. It is revealed by the decreasing level of PPARγ in mature adipocyte. 





## Reference

1. Ali, A. T., Hochfeld, W. E., Myburgh, R., & Pepper, M. S. (2013). Adipocyte and adipogenesis. European Journal of Cell Biology, 92(6-7), 229-236. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ejcb.2013.06.001
2. Lefterova, M. I., & Lazar, M. A. (2009). New developments in adipogenesis. Trends in Endocrinology & Metabolism, 20(3), 107-114. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.tem.2008.11.005
3. Tang, Q. Q., & Lane, M. D. (2012). Adipogenesis: From stem cell to Adipocyte. Annual Review of Biochemistry, 81(1), 715-736. https://doi.org/10.1146/annurev-biochem-052110-115718
4. White, U. A., & Stephens, J. M. (2010). Transcriptional factors that promote formation of white adipose tissue. Molecular and Cellular Endocrinology, 318(1-2), 10-14. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.mce.2009.08.023
