---
layout:     post
title:      MCAT_CARS_1 
subtitle:   note1_for_MCAT
date:       2020-07-23
author:     Yuxi
header-img: img/adipocyte.jpg
catalog: true
tags:
    - Academic note
    - MCAT
    - CARS
    - Road to medicine
    
---
> This series of notes is writting to prepare MACT exam. Because I already have a little background of GRE exam preparation, I deceded to choose CARS (Critical analysis and reasoning skills) section as the begining of my MCAT preparation. 

>Actually there are three kinds of questions in CARS section of MCAT testing: Fundations of comprehension, This note was wirtting as the record to solve the problems related to fundations of conprehension. And the study source was obtained from [Khan academy](https://www.khanacademy.org/test-prep/mcat/critical-analysis-and-reasoning-skills-practice-questions/critical-analysis-and-reasoning-skills-tutorial/v/foc) which is recommanded by ofiicial guide.


## Fundations of comprehension

In this kinds of question, the key points are about **main idea** and **why the auther wrote the passage in a specific way**. 

For example:
>##### Which of the following best captures the main goal of the passage?

>##### Which of the following sentences best represents the author's conclusion.

To solve this kind of question, it is important to indentify the position od attitude of the auther.  Therefore, claim which is able to give the author's position needs to be pay more attention. And for the conclusion of the passage, the end of passage contains more critical information. 

Some questions would also ask to infer author's attitude. This question required us to notice the connotative langugae in the passage. Connotative language could reflect the perspective or attitude of author by using loaded adjectives or adverbs like **evil**, **valuable**, **unfortunately** or **rightly**. With such information, author's bias or attitude could be aquired.

Sometimes, the author would use unfamiliar words or terms. And the questions will ask you to determine the intended meaning of specific words or phrases. Whether the meaning of the words used by author is familiar or not, the precise meaning should be figured out. 

For other fundation questions, paying attention to signal words and passage structure is needed. For instance:
>##### What is hte primary purpose of paragraph 3?

The signal words could help to locate the points. For example:

|Point Kinds|Phrases|
|:-:|-|
|main ideas|impotantly<br/> the only thing that matters is<br/> for example|  
|minor point|by the way<br/> in a few cases|
|argumant|in addiiton to<br/> therefore<br/> consequently|
