---
layout:     post
title:      Enzymes
subtitle:   MCAT BioChem 2
date:       2020-08-16
author:     Yuxi
header-img: img/adipocyte.jpg
catalog: true
tags:
    - Academic note
    - MCAT
    - Biochemistry
    - Road to medicine
    
---
> This series of notes is writting to prepare MACT exam. When I read the biography from my faviorate NBA player, Derrick Rose, there is a sentece: "Use 'Why not' instead of 'Why'". These words really touched me. I am a student with biological background. But with deeper and deeper learning of the life, I gradually realized that what I am interested in is the human being. And I want to focus on how to make our life better. I want to act as a healer now. Therefore, when I know there is a chance to be a doctor with medical doctor program from a very important person, it really makes me excited.

>Enzymes is crucial proteins that dramatically increase th erate of biological reactions. In my opinion, the organisms could be seen as a industrial workshop. And enzymes is the basic functional elements here. With enzyme, multiple elegant manipulations are performed to construct the life.

## 2.1 Enzymes as Biological Catalysts
Enzymes are incredibly important as biological catalysts. And enzymes shar these key features:
- Lower the activation energy
- Increase the rate of the reaction
- Do not alter the equilibrium constant 
- Appear in both the reactants and products
- pH and temperature sensitive 
- Do not affect the overall Gibbs free energy
- Specific for a particular reaction or class of reactions

### ENZYME CLASSIFICATIONS
Enzymes can be classfied into six categories, based on their function or mechanism.

#### Oxidoreductase
Oxidoreductase catalyze oxidation-reduction reactions, that is, the transfer of electrons between bilogical molecules. They often have a cofactor that acts as an electron carrier, such as NAD<sup>+</sup> or NADP<sup>+</sup>. 

#### Transferases
Transferases catalyze the movement of a functional group from one molecule to another. Most transferases will be straightforwardly named. But kinases are also a member of transferases.

#### Hydrolases
Hydrolases catalyze the breaking of a compund into two molecules using the addition of water. In common usage, many hydrolases are named only for their substrate, such as *phosphatase*, *nucleases, peptidase* and *lipase*.

#### Lyases
Lyases catalyze the cleavage of a single molecule into two products. They do not need water as a substrate and do not act as oxidoreductases. However, the synthesis of two molecules into a single molecule may also be catalyzed by a lyase. When fulfilling this function, it is common for them to be refferred to as synthases.

#### Isomerases
Isomerase catalyze the rearrangement of bonds within a molecule. Some isomerases can also beclassified as oxidoreductases, transferases, or lyases. Isomerases catalyze reactions between stereoisomers as well as constitutional isomers.

#### Ligases 
Ligases catalyze addtion or synthesisreaction generally between large similar molecules and often require ATP.


## 2.2 Mechanisms of Enzyme Activity
## 2.3 Enzyme Kinetics
## 2.4 Effects of Local Conditions on Enzyme Activity
## 2.5 Regulation of Enzyme Activity


