---
layout:     post
title:      MCAT_BioChem_1 
subtitle:   Amino_acids_peptides_and_proteins
date:       2020-08-16
author:     Yuxi
header-img: img/adipocyte.jpg
catalog: true
tags:
    - Academic note
    - MCAT
    - Biochemistry
    - Road to medicine
    
---
> This series of notes is writting to prepare MACT exam. When I read the biography from my faviorate NBA player, Derrick Rose, there is a sentece: "Use 'Why not' instead of 'Why'". These words really touched me. I am a student with biological background. But with deeper and deeper learning of the life, I gradually realized that what I am interested in is the human being. And I want to focus on how to make our life better. I want to act as a healer now. Therefore, when I know there is a chance to be a doctor with medical doctor program from a very important person, it really makes me excited.

>Biochemistry is one of the most important core course in my undergraduate school. And these notes will be writing to help me learn the biochemistry from the KAPLAN MCAT preparation book. And other related book is *Biochemistry* from PEARSON.

## 1.1 Amino Acids Found in Proteins

Amino acids are molecules that contain two functional groups: an **amino group(-NH<sub>2</sub>)** and an **carboxyl group(-COOH)**. And between them there is a carbon atom acting as a bridge to connect these two group called \alpha -carbon. 
For example:
>##### Which of the following best captures the main goal of the passage?

>##### Which of the following sentences best represents the author's conclusion.

To solve this kind of question, it is important to indentify the position od attitude of the auther.  Therefore, claim which is able to give the author's position needs to be pay more attention. And for the conclusion of the passage, the end of passage contains more critical information. 

Some questions would also ask to infer author's attitude. This question required us to notice the connotative langugae in the passage. Connotative language could reflect the perspective or attitude of author by using loaded adjectives or adverbs like **evil**, **valuable**, **unfortunately** or **rightly**. With such information, author's bias or attitude could be aquired.

Sometimes, the author would use unfamiliar words or terms. And the questions will ask you to determine the intended meaning of specific words or phrases. Whether the meaning of the words used by author is familiar or not, the precise meaning should be figured out. 

For other fundation questions, paying attention to signal words and passage structure is needed. For instance:
>##### What is the primary purpose of paragraph 3?

The **signal words** could help to locate the points. For example:

|Point Kinds|Phrases|
|:-:|-|
|main ideas|impotantly<br/> the only thing that matters is<br/> for example|  
|minor point|by the way<br/> in a few cases|
|argumant|in addiiton to<br/> therefore<br/> consequently|

Besides, **passage structure** also need to pay attention. The common sturctures are followed:

|Structure|Signal|
|:-:|:-:|
|point-counterpoint|lay out points from two sides|
|compare|commonalities and **difference**<br> like *in contrast to*, *but*, ...|
|chronological|*first*, *second*, ...|
|cause-effect|*because*. *due to*, ...|

And literary devices can also help us to understand the author's position or attitude. And there will be some questions such as
>##### An author may describe an episode in which a character sees a beautiful flower that's fighting to grow through the cracks of a grimy city sidewalk.

>##### And the question will be Which of the following is implied by the use of imagery anout the flower?

Literary device can color the author's message by using more or less pleasing examples.
