---
layout:     post
title:      The origin
subtitle:   "hello blog, hello world"
date:       2020-03-27
author:     Yuxi
header-img: img/post-bg-re-vs-ng2.jpg
catalog: true
tags:
    - Blog
    - Blog building
    - little thinking
---

> This is the first article in my blog.
> 
> The origin repository is from [qubaiying](http://qubaiying.top). 
> 
> WIthout help of my friend [Jiayi](https://shieldjy.github.io), I will never own a personal blog like this.

## Blog build
I forked the code from [qiubaiying's blog](http://qiubaiying.github.io). And [jekyll](http://jekyllcn.com/) is a very intersting tools to build a blog.There are many beautiful theme. Unfortunately, I am totally new about *html* and *markdown* writting. It is also interesting to use different theme based on jekyll to show a different personality.

If you want to build your personal blog, you can use [qiubaiying's blog](http://qiubaiying.github.io) as the reference. And there are also some other interesting tools such as *Hexo*.
 
# About Blog

### new window to show myself

There are still questions when I build my blog: *why do i need a blog? How long would I insist on writting the articles, and putting them on blog?*

Actually, I consider a blog a totally different window to show and record myself. On the one hand, talk to myself could help me clear my thought. On the other hand, it is improtant to having a series of integral things to record life in such a fragmented era. Maybe you can realize that I have this blog more about myself than use it as some kind of tool. **However, Welcome to my blog, to my inner world!**

### contents
I would put serval kinds of articles on the site: **learning notes**, **little thoughts**, and **life recording** 



> # More thoughts

> The process of building a blog shows my disadvantage again: which is that I am easy to be trapped on the road instead of heading to the goal. During my blog building, I was entangled with the blog theme. I have tried about this theme, and the *Next* theme. I put a lot of time in try differnent interfacre. However, the content is more important for a blog than its look. Looking back, actually I am always doing such things. When I want to learn about computational biology, I have spent a lot of time in installing Linux. I want to change this state, now.


## Reference
> 1. Baiyu. (2018, March 9). qiubaiying/qiubaiying.github.io. [博客搭建详细教程.]( https://github.com/qiubaiying/qiubaiying.github.io/wiki/%E5%8D%9A%E5%AE%A2%E6%90%AD%E5%BB%BA%E8%AF%A6%E7%BB%86%E6%95%99%E7%A8%8B)